Tables, sometimes you have
tabular data like this, right?.
Maybe you're making, I don't like
the standings of the current NBA teams,
the way you have that in the tables.
This is the Utah Jazz, they have this
many wins, this many losses, and
that would be a table of information.
Something that you could use a spreadsheet
for, tables are really useful for
that kind of stuff and
we call that tabular data.
And so I just wanted to show you
here how you would lay one out.
So I have a table tag,
and inside of that table,
I have a body cuz you can also
technically have a thead.
And I'll just show you that,
If you wanna see.
So here, we can have another table row,
which is a tr,
and this will have td of,
I don't know, some heading.
And this would have a td
of some other heading.
Okay, and so now I have,
if you're doing a spreadsheet,
you can name the different columns.
That's what a thead is for,
is to name all the different columns here.
So I don't know,
maybe this is names and points.
Imagine that we're doing trivia night or
something like that and
you're keeping track of Team 1's points or
Team Awesome, and they have 50 points.
Well, let's just make it Harry Potter,
my wife would be so
happy that I used
the Harry Potter analogy.
So this is Ravenclaw, obviously, and
this is Slytherin,
I think I spelled that correctly.
I'm a Ravenclaw, so I would
typically put myself as winning, but
my wife is a Slytherin, so I probably
should make her win, so a Slytherin's win,
just by the fact that
I'm afraid of my wife.
So you can see here I kind of
just created a basic spreadsheet
inside of my code using this table tag,
right?
So the thead to express
what the column names are,
and then I just used this
to express which is which.
So tr stands for
table row and td stands for,
I think it's table definition,
but it's like a cell,
it's an individual cell in
whatever your table is.
So there are so many more tags, right?
There's many, many, many tags.
I've shown you probably,
I'm gonna guess 75% usage will be
these very tags that I've shown you,
but there's still some other ones
that sometimes you will throw in for
various different reasons.
And actually, throughout this course,
we'll use more of them,
like article tags and
section tags and things like that.
But one thing I wanna emphasize to you,
technically you could use a div for
anything, right?
You can make everything, 100% of your
tags on your page could be a div, right?
A div is cardboard box and
you can make various different cardboard
boxes into your cardboard
fort of a website.
But it's important to use the thing
that matches it the closest, right?
So if I start using headings,
right, if I have an h1 on a site,
then some sort of assistive technology,
like a screen reader,
can go find the h1 on
the website to tell a blind or
a hard of seeing person,
this is the name of the website.
Cuz it's going to look for
h1s on your page.
This is called writing semantic markup or
semantic HTML.
By just following those
kind of best practices,
all of the assistive technology
will just work for free and
you don't have to do a lot of work to
make your site work for everybody.
Otherwise, you have to do a ton of work
to say, all right, screen readers,
come here, this is what this does, this
is what this does, and it's really hard.
I'll leave it at that.
Try and choose tags that match your
meaning, that's my plea to you.
And then take the Frontend Masters
course on accessibility,
which will really gets you into depth
of how to do the best kind of markup,
in addition to a bunch of
other really cool stuff.
So I just wanted to show you one here for
fun cuz I just entertained myself with it.
Do you remember the MySpace,
GeoCities, Angelfire days,
where we would have scrolling text?
There is technically a tag
here called the marquee tag.
It's old, it's deprecated, which means
it's been removed technically from HTML.
But still, Firefox and
Chrome still understand the marquee tag.
I love that it's super janky.
And they do that on purpose, because it's
actually how it used to look, right?
If you look at this in Chrome,
it's actually nice and smooth,
which is not how it used to look.
It used to be janky, and it needs to be
janky for it to be correct in my eyes.
So there's a bunch of stuff like that,
there used to be a blink tag.
The blink tag has gone away, thankfully,
cuz it was annoying as hell.
There's a bunch of other ones that
we could talk about, but yeah,
I like the Marquee tag,
that one always entertains me.
So let's talk about comments.
VS Code get all this context built into
our brains while we're writing some
code, right?
So you have all these thoughts, I'm doing
this, I'm doing this, I broke this,
I fixed this, and you get all this
built-up context in your head.
And then you leave, and you go back and
you come back the next day, right?
And you've lost all that context.
Imagine it's like writing an essay and
you do a bunch of research, and
then you leave and you try and come back
and continue your essay a week later.
You've lost all that context, you have to
work again to regain all of that context.
That's hard, right?
So there's a thing that coders
can do called comments.
And actually, you can see I spoiled that,
this is a comment right here.
You can leave comments in your code that
never gets shown to the user, right?
But it's actually just left there for
future coders and
your future self to be like that's
why I did this thing, right?
So if I wanted to leave a comment here of,
this is from Harry Potter or
something like that,
I can actually just put a little
comment here of angle bracket !--,
which you can see, this is my
ligature that I was talking about.
This is actually just an angle bracket,
an exclamation point, and
two dashes all next to each other, right?
And then as soon I hit backspace here,
this is just my font combining
them all into one gliff.
It's called a ligature,
and I left a link for
it in the previous section or
one of the previous sections, okay?
And so this is a comment.
And the way you finish a comment
is like this, a dash dash,
and then angle bracket,
then right-pointing angle bracket.
So if I combine these into one,
it makes just a really long arrow,
these things together all make a comment.
And this can be multiline as well, right?
So I can have more stuff here.
And this can just be
whatever you wanna put here,
there's no legal stuff
to put in a comment.
It's all just whatever
stuff you would wanna put.
So again, what I could have put here is,
These are the scores from
the Harry Potter houses or
something like that, right?
And now, if I come back later
to this code, I can see, okay,
that's what I was thinking
when I did this, right?
That's the point of comments.
And throughout this course,
we'll do a lot of commenting,
we'll show that on CSS,
we'll show it in JavaScript.
It's really important for you to leave
these little future notes to someone,
it's like, this is why I did this.
If you're writing code and you know later
that this is gonna be unclear why I did it
this way, you'll wanna leave a comment of,
I did this this way for this reason.
So that when you come back to it,
you're not gonna say,
why was Bryan such an idiot two days ago?
Believe me, it happens all the time,
comments will help you a lot.
So that's what comments are.
I'll give you a warning, right,
leaving comments like this.
If I put an h1 saying
Title of the Article and
then I leave a comment right underneath
it that says, this is the title,
by putting it in h1,
I know it's the title, right?
So don't leave comments everywhere
just for the sake of comments.
If you're gonna leave a comment,
make it useful, right?
Some things are just very obvious,
they don't need comments.
So somewhere of the balance of
between way too obvious and
leaving no comments, right?
You wanna make sure that you're leaving
an appropriate amount of comments.
Okay, so I just wanted to give
you a note on hard returns.
So this is something that I struggled
with when I was learning HTML, so
hopefully, I can kind of help you
not do the same things I did.
If you write this in your HTML,
what do you expect to happen?
I personally, if I didn't know HTML
previous to this, I would expect it to be,
this is some text, a space,
this is some more text, right?
I'd expect there to be a paragraph
between the two of those.
That's not actually how HTML works.
HTML is actually going to
squish this into one paragraph.
In fact, you can see that right here.
So this actually squished it
together all into one paragraph.
So yeah, this squished it
together into all one line,
because HTML is not going to
respect the whitespace here.
So how would I get that split correctly?
Well, I'm gonna show you two
different ways to do it.
There's a kind of
a correct way to do it and
there's kind of an incorrect way to do it.
You'll see both, and I wanna
implore you to use one of them, but
I'll show you both ways to do it and
you can make the decision yourself.
The correct way of doing this is
this is two paragraphs, right?
This is two paragraphs of text.
We expect it to be two paragraphs,
therefore we should just use
two paragraph tags, right?
So we should do it this way.
This is some text, some space.
Well, actually,
the space there isn't even important.
Just the fact that it's in two
different paragraphs will make it so
that these work the way that we expect.
So just make it two different paragraphs
rather than than trying to make this into
one paragraph, okay?
I want you to do it this way,
this is what I'm asking you to do,
I hope you do it this way.
Now, I'm gonna show you how
to do it the wrong way.
If you really have to do it in
one paragraph for some reason,
there is another tag called the br,
which stands for break.
This will make a break in your text.
This is the old way of writing HTML,
people used to write a lot of HTML.
I will tell you that if you go to
Netflix.com, there are zero break text.
So modern HTML programmers
do not use break,
they'll just put this into
multiple different paragraphs.
But I show you this for two reasons, one,
sometimes you might have some constraints
that this might be useful to you, and two,
you will definitely see
it on the Internet.
If you're Googling how do I do this, it
might show up in one of the answers, and I
don't want you to be startled by something
that you didn't see or anticipate before.
So this is correct.
Do two paragraphs tag.
This technically works, but
I'm gonna say incorrect.
So br tags used to be very common.
If you go to old websites,
they'll still exist.
But it's not anymore, most websites
don't use them at all anymore.
And this is just kind of a common theme
with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for
that matter,
is we're trying not to break the Internet.
So every time that we, and
I say we as in the collective community.
Every time that they release new
versions of HTML and CSS and
JavaScript, they add
things to the language and
to the new capabilities, but
they don't take away old things.
Because they want websites
from 1995 to work.
If you launch a website today, you
anticipate and you want that your website
will work for 30 more years,
50 more years, and that's what they want.
So that's the positive thing,
is websites never break.
The negative thing is we
are now left with a bunch
of really old stuff that
still technically works,
and it becomes less clear what's
the correct way of doing this.
So a break tag is one of those
things that's leftover from
an ancient era of all
these different things.
So this is not the preferred
way of doing it.
I'm telling you that because
it is in there, it exists.
You'll find lots of stuff like this and
we don't use it anymore, but it is there.